# PyPoll - Election Data Analysis

This Python script analyzes election data from election_data.CSV file and calculates key statistics, including the total number of votes, candidates' performance, and the election winner.

## Prerequisites

- Python installed on your system
- Install visual studio code (optional) and git bash (Windows user)
- A CSV file named "election_data.csv" with columns: "Ballot ID," "County," and "Candidate."

### How to use the python script

1. Clone or download this repository.

2. Ensure the "election_data.csv" file is in the same directory as the script or update the 'csvpath' variable.

3. Run the script:

    python main.py

The script will analyze the election data and display the results on the terminal. It will also create a text file named "election_results.txt" in the "analysis" directory with the same results.

Output Format

The analysis results include the following information:

- Total number of votes cast
- List of candidates who received votes
- Percentage of votes each candidate won
- Total number of votes each candidate won
- The winner of the election based on the popular vote

Output File

The results are saved in a text file named "election_results.txt" in the "analysis" directory. You can find the detailed analysis in this file.

## References

- Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for 
  educational purposes only.
- Python - Official Python website
- CSV Module Documentation - Python documentation on working with CSV files

## Author

Godswill Anyasor

## License

This project is open-source and is made available under the terms of the MIT License. The MIT License is a permissive open-source license that allows you to use, modify, and distribute this software for your own purposes. For the full details of the MIT License, please refer to [Google](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
